[Music]
in December 1967 John Updike was writing
talk of the town for The New Yorker and
he spent most of that talk of the town
column talking about the Umbrella me he
said that his learning of the existence
of the umbrella man made him speculate
that in historical research there may be
a dimension similar to the quantum
dimension in physical reality if you put
any event under a microscope you will
find a whole dimension of completely
weird incredible things going on it's as
if there's the macro level of historical
research we're things sort of obey
natural laws and usual things happen and
unusual things don't happen and then
there's this other level where
everything is really weird
on November 22nd it rained the night
before but everything cleared by about
9:00 or 9:30 in the morning so if you
were looking at various photographs of
the motorcade route and the crowds
gathered there you will have noticed
nobody's wearing a raincoat nobody has
an open umbrella why because it's a
beautiful day it's a beautiful day in
the neighborhood it's a beautiful day in
the name
and then I know this then all of Dallas
there appears to be exactly one person
standing under an open black umbrella
and that person is standing where the
shots begin to rain into the limousine
[Music]
let us call him the umbrella man did you
name the umbrella man yes you can see
him in the certain frames from the
superior film standing right there by
the Stemmons freeway sign there are
other still photographs taken from other
locations in Dealey Plaza which show the
whole man standing under an open black
umbrella
the only person under any umbrella in
all of Dallas standing right at the
location where all the shots come into
the limousine can anyone come up with a
non sinister explanation for this mm-hmm
so I published this in six seconds but
didn't speculate about what it meant or
got into any of the conspiracy theories
because everybody else got into the
conspiracy theories there was one
wingnut who published a book with a heat
diagram of the umbrella the umbrella was
rigged so that there was a aiming device
and there was a rocket tube that you
could fire a flash it directly into
Kennedy's throat the umbrella man is the
real assassin that was the idea that was
the source of all in the throat folks
right mm-hmm
well I asked that the umbrella man come
forward and explain this spray so he did
he came forward and he went to
Washington with his umbrella and he
testified in 1978 before the House
Select Committee on assassinations
he explained then why he had opened the
umbrella and was standing there that day
the open umbrella was a kind of protest
a visual protest it wasn't a protest of
any of John Kennedy's policies as
president it was a protest at the
appeasement policies of Joseph P Kennedy
John Kennedy's father when he was
ambassador to the court of st. James in
1938 and thirty-nine it was a reference
to Neville Chamberlain's umbrella I read
that and I thought this is just wacky
enough it has to be true and I take it
to be true what it means is that if if
you have any fact would you think is
really sinister right it's really
obviously a fact which can only point to
some sinister underpinnings hey forget
it man because you can never on your own
think up all the nonsense they're
perfectly valid explanations for that
fact a cautionary tale
[Music]
you